# FiberSpinning_2341J

### Project for Rheology and Complex Fluid Dynamics (2.341J) at MIT

## Abstract
Membrane-based separations are a non-thermal separation method with the possibility to reduce the significant energy impact associated with conventional thermal techniques such as distillation. One promising class of gas separation membranes are polymers of intrinsic microporosity (PIMs) which contain rigid and contorted backbones that introduce free volume elements (FVEs) into the structure. These FVEs induce frustrated packing, increasing the diffusion across the membrane. However, research on PIMs has largely focused on increasing intrinsic material properties such as permeability and selectivity and there is limited work on transitioning these materials to industrially scalable form factors such as hollow fibers. This is partially due to the challenges in hollow fiber membrane fabrication where success is dependent on numerous spinning parameters as well as the larger amount of material required compared to traditional thick film tests for determining intrinsic polymer properties. Thus, only two PIMs have been successfully spun. To increase the understanding of the spinning of PIMs, we model the flow behavior within the spinneret assembly and along the draw line, assuming the polymer solution behaves as a power-law fluid. Utilizing previously reported spin parameters for the archetypal PIM, PIM-1 by Jean-Baptiste et al. the flow profile was solved within the concentric annulus spinneret. These results showed that the wall shear rate was 100 s^(-1), below previously reported shear rates of polyimide spinning which reached 1000 s^(-1) and well below polysulfone spinning which reached above 10,000 s^(-1). The order of magnitude difference in shear rates indicates the fragility of PIMs and their spinning difficulty. Within the draw regime, a previously developed model for fiber geometry was expanded by introducing the effect of radial mass transfer via diffusion. Results showed that mass transfer was negligible for computing fiber dimensions, however, is vital to the development of the selective skin layer. Analysis of model assumptions revealed the spinning process for highly glassy microporous polymers may not be dominated by axial strain but instead by radial strain. Thus, future work should analyze these processes under these different sets of assumptions.
